it is a version control system..
to initialize the git, use:  git init

to see the stutus of the repo(repository). it shows the commits  of the file. 
use:  git status


in git checkpoints are known as commit.


in git before editing we have to take to file into the staging area and then we can commit. use:
git add file_name


to unstage from the staging area 
use: git rm --cached file_name 



to make commit in a file (checkpoint), we have to move the file to the staging area to commit area. 
use: git commit -m "changin meassege"
professionals use "initial commit" in the meassage section.


to show who did what contribution we have to use: git log

<<<this is just to see the changes>>> 


to make new branch in the master branch,
use:  git branch branch_name

and to access the new branch, 
use: git checkout branch_name



to do adding into staging area and commit in one command
use: git commit -am "meassage"


whenever we move to back to the master branch from the dev branch(or the created branch) then the code added in the dev branch will disapper from he file...cause that is the whole point of version control system.


to add the dev branch into the master branch, but to do that first we have to come back to the master branch.
use: git merge branch_name



to add this repo to the github(online host)
use: git remote add origin https://github.com/Prabalranjan/Learning-GIT.git

my name occured cause ive already loggin to my account and also enter my mail id in the git cmd.
git remote add origin <then the github path>



to check how many remote you have, basically show  how many files  uploaded. 
use: git remote -v 



if we want to push the dev branch into the  github repo
use: git push origin dev




whenever you make changes in the  local repo then use push command , doesn't matter you do it in master or dev vranch.
use: git push
it'll load a bit and then upload the code until the commited point.



git fetch and git merge together same thing and called git pull.



to get the changes of remote host into the local host 
use: git pull